# Bachelor Thesis

Understanding complex social networks. The impact of social features on the diffusion process.

Understanding social interactions and the emergence of social networks can help us understand the flow of market trends, product adoption and diffusion processes. Extant literature has proposed a wide variety  of  features  that  can  be  used  to  describe  networks (e.g.,  degree  distribution,  reciprocity, transitivity). Furthermore, it has been shown that in social networks, many such features have surprising regularities  (the  degree  distribution  is  often  broad  and  reciprocity  and  transitivity  are  relatively  high). The aim of this thesis is to identify which are the relevant features describing networks, how they relate to social mechanisms and which is their impact on the diffusion of products, ideas and behaviors. In the first step, the student will revise the relevant literature on network science, social mechanisms and  diffusion  process and  define  the coreconcepts. In  the  second  step,  the  student  will  analyze empirical networks (social and non-social) and train a classifier that predicts if a network is social based on the selected features. In the third step, the student will conduct a simulation study to quantify the importance of each feature in the diffusion process. After  finishing  the thesis,the  student  will  have  a  good  knowledge  of selected literature on network science and will be familiar with the use of R for scientific research.
